Exceptions can be thrown within Python,
which
means that, if something was to have an
error, like we saw earlier with the
two for example, then if something wasn't
working.
And dig through the error, you could,
actually, catch the error, and
give a more user friendly response,
because of the way of it worked.
And the way we do that, with something
called try and catch.
So, the example I'm going to use, we're
going to have the tuple here, which goes
from
one to five, and I am going to add in a
value of six, by going tuple.append.
And I'm just gonna add the value six
there, now
if you try and run this we get an
attribute error.
As you can see here, we got AttributeError
and then tuple object has no attribute
append.
So, what I'm going to do here is I'm
actually to do a try,
and we have to indent this.
And, some languages use a catch, we have
to use except.
And what we have here is we have the
print [SOUND] and we're just going to do
error formed.
And what we can do with this the what code
we actually wanted to
happen if it does work, is we can put it
inside of an else statement.
And so we can have that burn,
not too sure what happened there.
Okay, anyway, so here we have error found
which
is the print message that we set if it
doesn't work, so if it's a try doesn't
work
it goes to accept and that is what
happens.
Now, if you were to create your own
function, you can
actually raise your own problems, which
might appear from something like that.
So, by an error in the way in which you
are trying to access it for example,
or if you're trying to read a file and
send a file name which does not exist.
Or the extension's wrong, that sort of
idea.
Then you can create multiple exc,
exceptions and with those exceptions, what
you can do is you can catch them using the
accept and you can
have a more specialized answer, and its
just going to be attribute,
AttributeError as a, and eight is just a
standard what people use for errors.
[SOUND] And so here what we're going to
do, is just use something similar to
that, and now what we see is we get error
formed object has no attribute append.
So that is a more reader friendly way of
doing, giving an error.
Then the four lines that we had up here
beforehand, where, where we,
we're using the, without the append, and
without out the, Try Accept Else.
Now, there's something else which you can
also do, and with else,
you can get rid of that if you don't want
it and
you can drag all this, up to be in the
same area
as your try, because as soon as it moves
into a problem.
That is when the exception is thrown, not
the end of the try.
So as soon as it reaches the append, it
will stop it
and go to the exception, it won't chime on
this fall loop.
So we got no worries about this actually
happening or trying to do anything.
So now if we just come and top this line,
we, we'll receive
any errors and so we'll just get 1, 2, 3,
4 and 5.
So we can see that that is working exactly
as it should do, and if we
again, when, as it was before we get ever
form, triple object has no attributes end.
So, we can also have multiple exceptions,
that have to be caught.
So exception, and we could do something
like input output error, which is more to
do with error, and to do with file
handling, but we could still do [SOUND]
file not found.
And then, further exception as well, and e
is
just a standard letter you should use for
exception,
as most people would use this letter
because you
don't really need it anywhere else within
a code.
Because single letter variables usually
aren't
used, except for shorthand such in this.
So, that is how you can try and catch
exceptions, and when we move onto
function later on, I'll show you how you
can raise your own exceptions as well.
[MUSIC]